wiki4HE Data Set 
Download: Data Folder, Data Set Description

Abstract: Survey of faculty members from two Spanish universities on teaching uses of Wikipedia

Data Set Characteristics:  

Multivariate

Number of Instances:

913

Area:

Social

Attribute Characteristics:

N/A

Number of Attributes:

53

Date Donated

2015-05-04

Associated Tasks:

Regression, Clustering, Causal-Discovery

Missing Values?

Yes

Number of Web Hits:

32587


Source:

E. Aibar, J. Lladós, A. Meseguer, J. Minguillón (jminguillona[at]uoc[dot]edu), M. Lerga. Universitat Oberta de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain.


Data Set Information:

Ongoing research on university faculty perceptions and practices of using Wikipedia as a teaching resource. Based on a Technology Acceptance Model, the relationships within the internal and external constructs of the model are analyzed. Both the perception of colleagues’ opinion about Wikipedia and the perceived quality of the information in Wikipedia play a central role in the obtained model.


Attribute Information:

AGE: numeric 
GENDER: 0=Male; 1=Female 
DOMAIN: 1=Arts & Humanities; 2=Sciences; 3=Health Sciences; 4=Engineering & Architecture; 5=Law & Politics 
PhD: 0=No; 1=Yes 
YEARSEXP (years of university teaching experience): numeric 
UNIVERSITY: 1=UOC; 2=UPF 
UOC_POSITION (academic position of UOC members): 1=Professor; 2=Associate; 3=Assistant; 4=Lecturer; 5=Instructor; 6=Adjunct 
OTHER (main job in another university for part-time members): 1=Yes; 2=No 
OTHER_POSITION (work as part-time in another university and UPF members): 1=Professor; 2=Associate; 3=Assistant; 4=Lecturer; 5=Instructor; 6=Adjunct 
USERWIKI (Wikipedia registered user): 0=No; 1=Yes 

The following survey items are Likert scale (1-5) ranging from strongly disagree / never (1) to strongly agree / always (5) 

Perceived Usefulness 
PU1: The use of Wikipedia makes it easier for students to develop new skills 
PU2: The use of Wikipedia improves students' learning 
PU3: Wikipedia is useful for teaching 

Perceived Ease of Use 
PEU1: Wikipedia is user-friendly 
PEU2: It is easy to find in Wikipedia the information you seek 
PEU3: It is easy to add or edit information in Wikipedia 

Perceived Enjoyment 
ENJ1: The use of Wikipedia stimulates curiosity 
ENJ2: The use of Wikipedia is entertaining 

Quality 
QU1: Articles in Wikipedia are reliable 
QU2: Articles in Wikipedia are updated 
QU3: Articles in Wikipedia are comprehensive 
QU4: In my area of expertise, Wikipedia has a lower quality than other educational resources 
QU5: I trust in the editing system of Wikipedia 

Visibility 
VIS1: Wikipedia improves visibility of students' work 
VIS2: It is easy to have a record of the contributions made in Wikipedia 
VIS3: I cite Wikipedia in my academic papers 

Social Image 
IM1: The use of Wikipedia is well considered among colleagues 
IM2: In academia, sharing open educational resources is appreciated 
IM3: My colleagues use Wikipedia 

Sharing attitude 
SA1: It is important to share academic content in open platforms 
SA2: It is important to publish research results in other media than academic journals or books 
SA3: It is important that students become familiar with online collaborative environments 

Use behaviour 
USE1: I use Wikipedia to develop my teaching materials 
USE2: I use Wikipedia as a platform to develop educational activities with students 
USE3: I recommend my students to use Wikipedia 
USE4: I recommend my colleagues to use Wikipedia 
USE5: I agree my students use Wikipedia in my courses 

Profile 2.0 
PF1: I contribute to blogs 
PF2: I actively participate in social networks 
PF3: I publish academic content in open platforms 

Job relevance 
JR1: My university promotes the use of open collaborative environments in the Internet 
JR2: My university considers the use of open collaborative environments in the Internet as a teaching merit 

Behavioral intention 
BI1: In the future I will recommend the use of Wikipedia to my colleagues and students 
BI2: In the future I will use Wikipedia in my teaching activity 

Incentives 
INC1: To design educational activities using Wikipedia, it would be helpful: a best practices guide 
INC2: To design educational activities using Wikipedia, it would be helpful: getting instruction from a colleague 
INC3: To design educational activities using Wikipedia, it would be helpful: getting specific training 
INC4: To design educational activities using Wikipedia, it would be helpfull: greater institutional recognition 

Experience 
EXP1: I consult Wikipedia for issues related to my field of expertise 
EXP2: I consult Wikipedia for other academic related issues 
EXP3: I consult Wikipedia for personal issues 
EXP4: I contribute to Wikipedia (editions, revisions, articles improvement...) 
EXP5: I use wikis to work with my students 


Relevant Papers:

Meseguer, A., Aibar, E., Lladós, J., Minguillón, J., Lerga, M. (2015). “Factors that influence the teaching use of Wikipedia in Higher Education”. JASIST, Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology. ISSN: 2330-1635. doi: 10.1002/asi.23488. 



Citation Request:

Please cite our JASIST paper if you use this dataset.